---
author: Wang S. and Li Q. and Xu M. and Ma X. Zhou A. and Sun Q.
year: 2021
tags:
  - orbital-edge-computing
  - leo-satellites
pdf_link: "[[Tiansuan_Constellation_An_Open_Research_Platform.pdf|Open PDF]]"
---
# Tiansuan Constellation: An Open Research Platform

## TLDR

%% One-sentence summary of the core/claim contribution. %%

The paper proposes the Tiansuan constellation, an open research platform for conducting experiments on real satellite systems.

## Related Work

%% Existing state-of-the-art research. %%

## Contributions

%% Research gap and novel contributions. %%

It is possible to research large-scale satellite networks using simulations, however conducting experiments on real satellite systems would be preferred. The bar of entry is however extremely high due to deployment costs and unknown risks.

For this reason, the paper proposes the Tiansuan constellation, an open research platform for experiments on real satellite systems.

### Potential Spectrum of Experiments

- *Networking*. The constellation supports networking experiments at the physical layer, network layer, transport layer, and application layer. Furthermore, 6G networks will be deployed on the constellation which leads to future research opportunities.
- *Computing*. There is a potential opportunity that satellite constellations provide computing services wherever people want. Two topics related to processing space-native data discussed are *Real-Time Earth Observation* and *AI in Space*.
- *Satellite Operating System*. It is urgent to develop an underlying operating system for the satellite internet featuring miniaturization, ubiquity and universalization.
- *Security and Reliability*. Security and reliability of satellite constellations are fundamental to enable its great potential.
- *Hardware Testing*. The Tiansuan constellation supports space experiments and in-orbit testing of hardware devices. For example, the performance of sensors, cameras, and antnennas can be tested onboard.

## Methodology

%% Architecture of the solution. %%

The constellation operates according to the *open principle*. Research institutions can join by submitting research requirements or enhancing the constellation in collaboration.

## Implementation

%% Actual implementation of the solution. %%

## Evaluation

%% The evaluation of the solution. %%

Two case studies are performed in the paper:

- *Satellite-borne B5G Core Network*
- *Image Inference*

---

## Links

%% Links to related topics. %%