---
author: Park K. et al
year: 2026
tags:
  - leo-satellites
  - video-streaming
pdf_link: "[[Joint_Optimization_of_Handoff_and_Video_Rate_in_LEO_Satellite_Networks.pdf|Open PDF]]"
---
# Joint Optimization of Handoff and Video Rate in LEO Satellite Networks

## TLDR

%% One-sentence summary of the core/claim contribution. %%

Pape proposes a set of algorithms for joint optimization of choosing the satellite and video bitrate to optimize [[Quality of Experience (QoE)]].

## Thoughts

%% Thoughts and questions about the paper. %%

## Related Work

%% Existing state-of-the-art research. %%

Motivation:

- Video streaming major use case of Internet
- Video quality is crucial to retaining viewers
- Adaptive video streaming addresses fluctuating throughput
	- Video streams are chunked
	- Chunks are encoded at different data rates
- The paper jointly studies video streaming and LEO
	- Throughput pattern is important for QoE
	- Widely used handoff algorithms don't yield good video QoE
	- Shared satellite bandwidth complicates design of video rate adaptation

## Contributions

%% Research gap and novel contributions. %%

- Use measurements to identify challenges of video streaming in LEO
- Develop algorithms for join management of satellite mobility and video bitrate
- Conduct trace-driven simulation and testbed experiments

Key challenges/opportunities of video streaming in LEO:

- Predictability of satellite signal
- Video performance in LEO networks
- Satellite handoff selection
- Throughput sharing in LEO networks

## Methodology

%% Architecture of the solution. %%

## Implementation

%% Actual implementation of the solution. %%

## Evaluation

%% The evaluation of the solution. %%

---

## Links

%% Links to related literature. %%