---
author: Li J. et al
year: 2024
tags:
  - packet-loss
  - leo-satellites
pdf_link: "[[SatGuard__Concealing_Endless_and_Bursty_Packet_Losses_in_LEO_Satellite_Networks_for_Delay-Sensitive_Web_Applications.pdf|Open PDF]]"
---
# SatGuard: Concealing Endless and Bursty Packet Losses in LEO Satellite Networks for Delay-Sensitive Web Applications

## TLDR

%% One-sentence summary of the core/claim contribution. %%

The paper proposes *SatGuard*, a distributed in-orbit loss recovery mechanism that can reduce user-perceived delay by completely concealing packet losses in unstable and lossy LEO satellite network environments.

## Thoughts

%% Thoughts and questions about the paper. %%

## Related Work

%% Existing state-of-the-art research. %%

Introduction:

- Low orbit guarantees low propagation delay
- Inherently lossy and unstable satellite links impose significant challenges on sustaining Web QoE
- Mobility of LEO satellites can lead to *endless* and *burst* packet loss for transport endpoints
- Web applications can recover lost packets
	- However, retransmission introduces extra delay and high jitter
- Fast loss recovery can be classified into multiple major categories
	- Network coding to inject redundant information into data packets and recover lost packets without retransmission
		- e.g. *Forward error correction (FEC)*
		- Problem:
			- Lower redundancy in coding leads to recovery failure
			- Higher redundancy requires bandwidth which is scare in LEO
		- Problem: Datasets can't reflect unique network behaviors
	- Link-local retransmission to buffer packets on intermediate nodes and re-send locally
		- Implemented either on transport layer or link layer
		- Problem: LEO dynamics cause frequent disconnects and thus retransmission disruptions
	- NOTE: Can also use ML to predict packet loss rate

## Contributions

%% Research gap and novel contributions. %%

Main contributions:

- Proposal of *SatGuard* that extends link-local-retransmission mechanisms to address unique challenges caused by LEO

## Methodology

%% Architecture of the solution. %%

## Implementation

%% Actual implementation of the solution. %%

## Evaluation

%% The evaluation of the solution. %%

---

## Links

%% Links to related literature. %%