---
date: 2026-05-07
attendees:
  - "Stefan Nastic"
  - "Daniel Kleebinder"
  - "Raoul Wograndl"
---
# 2026-05-07

## Objective

%% 1-sentence summary of why this meeting is happening. %%

First meeting to get to know each other and explain the master thesis process.

## Discussion

%% Bullet points of things discussed in the meeting. %%

NOTE: Communication is primarily handled with Daniel Kleebinder, after the
proposal is completed keep Stefan Nastic up-to-date weekly.

### Master Thesis

The following describes the "monologue" given by Stefan Nastic about what a
master thesis is supposed to be and how my work on it will play out in the next
couple of months.

The master thesis is supposed to be a complete scientific work which typically
includes *three research questions (RQs)* that need to be answered. These answers
should lead to *three contributions* that haven't been addressed enough in existing
research. Some form of **novelty** is necessary, the contributions could also
be **disruptive** (which is possible but quite unlikely for a master thesis).

My first challenge as an unexperienced researcher is finding, scoping and
finally answering research questions.

NOTE: The thesis should definitely not just be 25-30 pages, however it also
shouldn't exceed the 150-200 pages mark.

### Timeline

From start to end (proposal to final submission) the timespan is expected to be
around *6 to 8 months* (shorter if possible, not longer) of intensive project
work. This entails *several hundred hours of project time* so be prepared about
the expected workload!

The master thesis is structured like the following:

1. Topic discovery
2. Proposal
3. Prototype Implementation
4. Prototype Evaluation
5. Organizing the Defense

#### Topic Discovery

NOTE: Timespan A couple of weeks

The topic discovery includes the first research for a specific topic. In this
phase, Stefan Nastic likes to flip the table and give the student a handle over
what to specifically work on.

#### Proposal

NOTE: Timespan 4 weeks

The proposal should outline the RQs, describe the expected scientific work
outcome and contributions. Stefan Nastic always likes to have something tangiable
as work outcome, most often than not this means to have a functional prototype
made available public through a GitHub repository. It should be something that
can be executed.

Furthermore, the proposal should already include a high-level description of the
planned experiments to evaluate said prototype (DSG doesn't usually deal with
formal proofs).

The last part of the proposal, but usually the first part I'll have to work on
will be an analysis of the current state-of-the-art in research. Here, I should
describe related work and justify how my work is better than existing work or
fills a gap in current research. For this, I should take a look at existing
proposals and accompanying materials.

The scope of the proposal is similar to the seminar paper, the ideal size starts
out at 10-15 pages which are then reduced to 4-5 pages.

The purpose of the proposal is to prepare yourself for the rest of the master
thesis. It acts as a sort of *blueprint*. Right after being done with the
proposal you shouldn't have any questions on how or where to start and head
right into implementation of your prototype.

Note that before diving right into the rest of the master thesis, you should
first define a concrete project timeline including significant milestones within
the boundaries of the project timespan (6-8 months).

NOTE: Milestone 1a - Proposal
NOTE: Milestone 1b - Project Timeline

#### Prototype Implementation

NOTE: Timespan 12-16 weeks

The most time spent during my master thesis is during the implementation of
the prototype. This is where most of the tutor's guidance comes into play as
well. Note that the expectations of the DSG are quite high in this regard,
Stefan Nastic also likes to have continuous progress updates at this point in
time.

NOTE: Milestone 2 - Prototype

#### Prototype Evaluation

NOTE: Timespan 2-4 weeks

Here's where I perform the experiments outlined in the proposal. It's an
iterative stage, so I can go back to improving the prototype before going back
to conduct the experiments and re-evaluating the results.

Stefan Nastic recommends drafting a scientific paper during this stage, reason
being that working with 10 pages is way easier than a thesis of 100 pages. If
the results are good as well there may be the possibility of publishing the
paper. Regardless, writing a paper first is recommended either way since
expanding on it later on is a great way to write the thesis itself rather than
starting out immediately trying to write 100 pages.

NOTE: Milestone 3a - Evaluation Results
NOTE: Milestone 3b - Scientific Paper
NOTE: Milestone 3c - Master Thesis

#### Organizing the Defense

NOTE: Timespan 2 weeks

This process should come relatively easy since it's structured quite well at TU.
When preparing the presentation, definitely share the slides beforehand.

NOTE: Milestone 4a - Presentation Slides
NOTE: Milestone 4b - Master Thesis Defense

#### Buffer

NOTE: Timespan 4-6 weeks

In project managament a standard practice is to factor in a buffer of 15-20%
of the total project's timeline. This buffer is there to adjust for the actual
writing phase of the thesis (including important but often overlooked polishing)
as well as various causes of delays (sickness, technical debt...).

## TODOs

%% Checklist of open tasks for me to accomplish. %%

- [ ] Find concrete master thesis topic.

## Next Meeting

%% Date and time for the next meeting. %%

No meeting scheduled.
