---
author: Hou X., Lu Y., Dey S.
year: 2017
tags:
  - vr/ar
  - edge-computing
  - cloud-computing
pdf_link: "[[Wireless_VR_AR_with_Edge_Cloud_Computing.pdf|Open PDF]]"
---
# Wireless VR/AR with Edge/Cloud Computing

## TLDR

%% One-sentence summary of the core/claim contribution. %%

The paper discusses how to enable wireless VR/AR experience by integration into the edge-cloud continuum and addresses associated challenges.

## Thoughts

%% Thoughts and questions about the paper. %%

## Related Work

%% Existing state-of-the-art research. %%

- Existing head-mounted displays (HMDs) render locally or on a tethered mobile device or computer
	- They are quite heavy-weight, thus not portable
- By performing the rendering on edge/cloud devices, we can enable lightweight VR/AR clients
	- Challenging because latency and bandwidth issues

## Contributions

%% Research gap and novel contributions. %%

Main contributions:

- Discussion of how to enable light wireless VR/AR with edge/cloud computing

## Methodology

%% Architecture of the solution. %%

- Cloud and edge enables mobility
- Cloud and edge have network bandwidth and transmission delay costs
- When streaming cloud-rendered VR content:
	- [[Backhaul|backhaul bandwidth]] is required
	- Cellular bandwidth (if user is outdoor) is required

Challenges:

- Cloud/edge based video rendering and streaming require high bandwidth and low response time
- When using HMDs, distance between eyes and screen is extremely low
	- Video artifacts are easily noticeable
		- High video quality is required, thus high [[Bitrate|bitrate]] is required
- Head motion increases latency sensitivity
	- Higher frame rate and bitrate needed
		- For 1080p with head-motion (virtual classroom): ~28 Mbps
		- For 1080p with head-motion (racing game): ~40 Mbps
	- Acceptable total latency:
		- For 1080p with head-motion (virtual classroom): ~22ms
		- For 1080p with head-motion (racing game): ~22ms

## Implementation

%% Actual implementation of the solution. %%

## Evaluation

%% The evaluation of the solution. %%

---

## Links

%% Links to related literature. %%